thanks to our latitude and unique
coastline which provides plenty breeding
grounds we've got one of the biggest
populations of seals in Europe 50
thousand common seals and a hundred and
twenty thousand greys now that's as good
a motive as he can get for great whites
to visit our shores and some people
believe they've seen the evidence for
this firsthand on a July morning in 1999
kayak enthusiast Ronnie we're joined
good friends joke Wilkinson and his
family for a day at sea off the west
coast of Scotland it was really just a
short idle nothing adventurous just a
lazy day and this year pepra DS which is
a very popular at kayaking area
loads of people come from all over the
UK to paddle here because of so much
wildlife and the scenery is so fantastic
Israel at this time of year come and
seal pupping season it was at its height
up here Ronnie and I have spent a
lifetime studying the seals in these
ions from an ammeter viewpoint obviously
we're interested in wildlife and one for
a to around ions and looking at seals
and shield pops as the group made their
way toward an island which they knew to
be inhabited by a large group of common
seals they started to get the feeling
that something wasn't quite right we
couldn't understand why the seals
wouldn't come off syrup that was really
strange there's not even real awesome to
come off the rocks into the water
the titles very close to them and they
just stayed there they didn't move
unable to explain the strange behavior
of the seals they decided to make their
way back to shore it was then that
Stewart's son spotted something in the
water
is that a dolphin dad I knew instantly
it wasn't a dolphin and he certainly
wasn't a basking shark it was only about
50 yards away I did meet the new Martin
this probably wasn't the best time to go
swimming if one of us came out of boards
with that in mind
Stuart's girlfriend and son decided
they'd rather be back on dry land but
Ron and Stuart chose to go back and
investigate so we took the other two
back in and came back out and it
appeared again and so I've been waiting
for us and we moved up the coast and
this thing can afford theirs after the
cost probably stealing about 50 yards I
do think you good any course up to us
than that
[Music]
we went all the way down past all the
islands turn and came back and that
followed there's a whole way back up but
that wasn't all
the following day Stewart and his son
found something even more intriguing
came across a seal carcass that been
bitten too there was no signs of
decomposition and anything larger was
still pretty fresh which I thought was
more than a coincidence given what we'd
seen the day before